Hi everybody, welcome to my personal
least favorite lecture of all time. It's the lecture where I try
to explain the word this, and how it's used in programming languages. The only reason I don't enjoy
this lecture, is that I find it extremely difficult to talk about the word
this without using the word this. So try your best to follow along. And I'll do my best to make
sure I'm as clear as possible. So why do we even need to
use special key words? Well, because a key to smart programming
is using different functions. You don't want to write your own code. You want to use somebody else's code. But a common road block, especially for
new programmers, is trying to figure out. How can I write a function so
that I can reuse it over and over again? How can I write this function so
that different elements can use it? But the function knows basically,
how do I know what information to use. That's where this keyword comes in. So this allows an element
to refer to itself. So, every object in the DOM,
has an automatically generated this. This this attribute allows you
to access and element's info. Without this, it would be very difficult
for functions to know what data to use. This is also used in outside functions. Let me draw up something really quickly,
before we get to more explicit examples. When you're writing code,
if you were to say have an A tag. And somewhere along
the lines you say onclick. And you wanna write a function. How do you tell the function that
you wanna use this particular a tag? As opposed to other a elements
that might be in the program? Well you can go ahead, and you can
somewhere put the word this in here. Whenever the computer sees the word this,
boom. What it's going to do is it's just gonna
backtrack and go back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back until it's,
oops, here's an open tag. They must be referring to
this DOM element right here. So let's look at what I hope are a few
simple examples of using the word this. Right here I have four
different elements on my page. I have two awesome pictures
from the 80s and the 70s. And then, I also have a few divs with
some text within it, right here. Boom and boom. Each one of these elements has
been associated with an event. And I wanna show you how
I can use the word this. So that the events can be very
specific to the element I'm click on. So let's start by looking
at this picture right here. In the html code you can see
that I have source check. I have alt text check, and
I also have an event that says on click. I want you to log to the console the alt
text of this particular element. So as soon as the computer
sees the word this. It's gonna back up,
[SOUND] until it gets to the image. And then we'll say. Oh they want the alt text for this image. So lets see what happens when I
actually click on this image. As you can see,
as soon as I clicked on it. The message Awesome 80's haircut shows up,
all right? If I were to click on this multiple times. It doesn't actually show up in
the console multiple times. You can see that there's a little
number over here that says. Oh, this has happened four times in a row. But the important thing is that,
I click on an image and the event knew that this was
the image I was clicking on. Let's look at the next example down here. I've got my div that just says, hi there. Checking out a div. I'm looking at the second
example right here. On this one, I want I want to do something
similar, but divs don't have alt text. So instead what I said to do is,
go ahead and log the inner html. So when I click on this div,
I'm expecting to see, hi there, checking out the div to
show up in the console. As you can see, it's working. These first two examples are very similar. And that all I'm doing is basically
kind of manipulating what's going on in the console. In these last two,
I did something very similar. But instead of just using
on-click do something. I'm going to go ahead and
use this function over here. Here's a great example of code reuse. The first few examples, concept only. This one I want to show you how I can
use this same function called displayID on different elements. On my family Christmas photo down here,
you can see that I have an id of ID-1. On this picture over here
I have an id of ID-2. So my hope is that they can both use
the same exact function called displayID. And even though they're
using the same function, it's actually gonna
show different results. So let's see what happens
when I start to click. ID-1, ID-1, ID-2, ID-2. Here's a simple example of us using
onClick along with a function and the keyword, this,
to provide different data. I want to show you though,
a slightly more colorful example. That I think also makes
this point really well. In this example let's start
right off with the JavaScript. I have a function called showProperties. And it is expecting to be
sent some sort of element. Remember, I can call this
parameter anything I want. I can call it element,
I can call it e, I can call it elem. It doesn't matter to the computer. As long as it makes sense to you,
the general idea that. Oh, I think I'm gonna be
passed a DOM element here. Once you get in side the function
you can do document.getelementbyid. Basically what it's doing is it's
grabbing this section of my hmtl. Stating I want to go ahead and I want to change what's showing
up inside that little box. What do I want to change it to? I want to change it to the alt text of
whatever element is being sent to me. I'm gonna stop here and
pause just for a second. Because this is a great place for
you to think. All right, she's talking about alt text. So that probably means the element
is going to be a picture. Because if it ends up being a div or a paragraph, this won't break but
nothing's going to happen. Now, I'm gonna show you
the cool part of this. On each one of these elements, I have
show property and the keyword this which says send this image that I am hovering
over with my mouse and call that property. So let's take a look and
see how this works. I'm gonna hover over
the first picture of my dog. And I am really hoping that the alt text
associated with this picture is going to show up in the preview, and it did. I hover over another picture,
and I get with my boy. And then finally, in the last picture
you can kind of see how once again the alt text is being
displayed inside the preview. I've done something really simple here. And what you're going to do in one of the
homeworks is expand on this idea and say. Not only do I wanna change whatever
text is showing up in here. I actually want to change
this whole picture. So go back. Follow this more complex example
of using the keyword this that you can figure out how to
change more than just one thing. How can we change different things? How can we change the background color? Could you change the border? Different things like this that are,
you all know how to do. But just because you know how to do it,
doesn't mean you don't have to stop and think and
really process it in your mind first. The key word this, the concept of the word
this, can be really tricky to grasp. It took me quite a while myself. And I don't think I really understood
it until I started teaching it. The important thing to note is
that repeated practice helps. You want to go in and
you want to do as much coding as you can. And then, if or when you get stuck,
remember to work backwards. Find that keyword and just start
marching back until you find a tag. As soon as you find that tag, think back. Think to the early things you learned
when you were first learning HTML5. Think about that DOM and go. Oh, we're talking about this little
part of the tree right there. I hope this is something you're able
to grasp much more quickly than I did. And I'm gonna do my best to give
you the examples that you can use to really master this. Good luck.